To be rich is a luxurious sensation--the more so when you have plumbed
the depths of hard-up-ness as a Fleet Street hack, a picker-up of
unconsidered pars, a reporter, an unappreciated journalist--all callings
utterly inconsistent with one's family feeling and one's direct descent
from the Dukes of Picardy.

When my Aunt Dorcas died and left me seven hundred a year and a
furnished house in Chelsea, I felt that life had nothing left to offer
except immediate possession of the legacy. Even Mildred Mayhew, whom I
had hitherto regarded as my life's light, became less luminous. I was
not engaged to Mildred, but I lodged with her mother, and I sang duets
with Mildred, and gave her gloves when it would run to it, which was
seldom. She was a dear good girl, and I meant to marry her some day. It
is very nice to feel that a good little woman is thinking of you--it
helps you in your work--and it is pleasant to know she will say "Yes"
when you say "Will you?"

But, as I say, my legacy almost put Mildred out of my head, especially
as she was staying with friends in the country just then.

Before the first gloss was off my new mourning I was seated in my aunt's
own armchair in front of the fire in the dining-room of my own house. My
own house! It was grand, but rather lonely. I _did_ think of Mildred
just then.

The room was comfortably furnished with oak and leather. On the walls
hung a few fairly good oil-paintings, but the space above the
mantelpiece was disfigured by an exceedingly bad print, "The Trial of
Lord William Russell," framed in a dark frame. I got up to look at it.
I had visited my aunt with dutiful regularity, but I never remembered
seeing this frame before. It was not intended for a print, but for an
oil-painting. It was of fine ebony, beautifully and curiously carved.

I looked at it with growing interest, and when my aunt's housemaid--I
had retained her modest staff of servants--came in with the lamp, I
asked her how long the print had been there.

"Mistress only bought it two days afore she was took ill," she said;
"but the frame--she didn't want to buy a new one--so she got this out of
the attic. There's lots of curious old things there, sir."

"Had my aunt had this frame long?"

"Oh yes, sir. It come long afore I did, and I've been here seven years
come Christmas. There was a picture in it--that's upstairs too--but it's
that black and ugly it might as well be a chimley-back."

I felt a desire to see this picture. What if it were some priceless old
master in which my aunt's eyes had only seen rubbish?

Directly after breakfast next morning I paid a visit to the lumber-room.

It was crammed with old furniture enough to stock a curiosity shop. All
the house was furnished solidly in the early Victorian style, and in
this room everything not in keeping with the "drawing-room suite" ideal
was stowed away. Tables of papier-mach√© and mother-of-pearl,
straight-backed chairs with twisted feet and faded needlework cushions,
firescreens of old-world design, oak bureaux with brass handles, a
little work-table with its faded moth-eaten silk flutings hanging in
disconsolate shreds: on these and the dust that covered them blazed the
full daylight as I drew up the blinds. I promised myself a good time in
re-enshrining these household gods in my parlour, and promoting the
Victorian suite to the attic. But at present my business was to find the
picture as "black as the chimley-back;" and presently, behind a heap of
hideous still-life studies, I found it.

Jane the housemaid identified it at once. I took it downstairs carefully
and examined it. No subject, no colour were distinguishable. There was a
splodge of a darker tint in the middle, but whether it was figure or
tree or house no man could have told. It seemed to be painted on a very
thick panel bound with leather. I decided to send it to one of those
persons who pour on rotting family portraits the water of eternal
youth--mere soap and water Mr. Besant tells us it is; but even as I did
so the thought occurred to me to try my own restorative hand at a corner
of it.

My bath-sponge, soap, and nailbrush vigorously applied for a few seconds
showed me that there was no picture to clean! Bare oak presented itself
to my persevering brush. I tried the other side, Jane watching me with
indulgent interest. The same result. Then the truth dawned on me. Why
was the panel so thick? I tore off the leather binding, and the panel
divided and fell to the ground in a cloud of dust. There were two
pictures--they had been nailed face to face. I leaned them against the
wall, and the next moment I was leaning against it myself.

For one of the pictures was myself--a perfect portrait--no shade of
expression or turn of feature wanting. Myself--in a cavalier dress,
"love-locks and all!" When had this been done? And how, without my
knowledge? Was this some whim of my aunt's?

"Lor', sir!" the shrill surprise of Jane at my elbow; "what a lovely
photo it is! Was it a fancy ball, sir?"

"Yes," I stammered. "I--I don't think I want anything more now. You can
go."

She went; and I turned, still with my heart beating violently, to the
other picture. This was a woman of the type of beauty beloved of Burne
Jones and Rossetti--straight nose, low brows, full lips, thin hands,
large deep luminous eyes. She wore a black velvet gown. It was a
full-length portrait. Her arms rested on a table beside her, and her
head on her hands; but her face was turned full forward, and her eyes
met those of the spectator bewilderingly. On the table by her were
compasses and instruments whose uses I did not know, books, a goblet,
and a miscellaneous heap of papers and pens. I saw all this afterwards.
I believe it was a quarter of an hour before I could turn my eyes away
from hers. I have never seen any other eyes like hers. They appealed, as
a child's or a dog's do; they commanded, as might those of an empress.

"Shall I sweep up the dust, sir?" Curiosity had brought Jane back. I
acceded. I turned from her my portrait. I kept between her and the woman
in the black velvet. When I was alone again I tore down "The Trial of
Lord William Russell," and I put the picture of the woman in its strong
ebony frame.

Then I wrote to a frame-maker for a frame for my portrait. It had so
long lived face to face with this beautiful witch that I had not the
heart to banish it from her presence; from which, it will be perceived
that I am by nature a somewhat sentimental person.

The new frame came home, and I hung it opposite the fireplace. An
exhaustive search among my aunt's papers showed no explanation of the
portrait of myself, no history of the portrait of the woman with the
wonderful eyes. I only learned that all the old furniture together had
come to my aunt at the death of my great-uncle, the head of the family;
and I should have concluded that the resemblance was only a family one,
if every one who came in had not exclaimed at the "speaking likeness." I
adopted Jane's "fancy ball" explanation.

And there, one might suppose, the matter of the portraits ended. One
might suppose it, that is, if there were not evidently a good deal more
written here about it. However, to me, then, the matter seemed ended.

I went to see Mildred; I invited her and her mother to come and stay
with me. I rather avoided glancing at the picture in the ebony frame. I
could not forget, nor remember without singular emotion, the look in
the eyes of that woman when mine first met them. I shrank from meeting
that look again.

I reorganized the house somewhat, preparing for Mildred's visit. I
turned the dining-room into a drawing-room. I brought down much of the
old-fashioned furniture, and, after a long day of arranging and
re-arranging, I sat down before the fire, and, lying back in a pleasant
languor, I idly raised my eyes to the picture. I met her dark, deep
hazel eyes, and once more my gaze was held fixed as by a strong
magic--the kind of fascination that keeps one sometimes staring for
whole minutes into one's own eyes in the glass. I gazed into her eyes,
and felt my own dilate, pricked with a smart like the smart of tears.

"I wish," I said, "oh, how I wish you were a woman, and not a picture!
Come down! Ah, come down!"

I laughed at myself as I spoke; but even as I laughed I held out my
arms.

I was not sleepy; I was not drunk. I was as wide awake and as sober as
ever was a man in this world. And yet, as I held out my arms, I saw the
eyes of the picture dilate, her lips tremble--if I were to be hanged for
saying it, it is true. Her hands moved slightly, and a sort of flicker
of a smile passed over her face.

I sprang to my feet. "This won't do," I said, still aloud. "Firelight
does play strange tricks. I'll have the lamp."

I pulled myself together and made for the bell. My hand was on it, when
I heard a sound behind me, and turned--the bell still unrung. The fire
had burned low, and the corners of the room were deeply shadowed; but,
surely, there--behind the tall worked chair--was something darker than a
shadow.

"I must face this out," I said, "or I shall never be able to face myself
again." I left the bell, I seized the poker, and battered the dull coals
to a blaze. Then I stepped back resolutely, and looked up at the
picture. The ebony frame was empty! From the shadow of the worked chair
came a silken rustle, and out of the shadow the woman of the picture
was coming--coming towards me.

I hope I shall never again know a moment of terror so blank and
absolute. I could not have moved or spoken to save my life. Either all
the known laws of nature were nothing, or I was mad. I stood trembling,
but, I am thankful to remember, I stood still, while the black velvet
gown swept across the hearthrug towards me.

Next moment a hand touched me--a hand soft, warm, and human--and a low
voice said, "You called me. I am here."

At that touch and that voice the world seemed to give a sort of
bewildering half-turn. I hardly know how to express it, but at once it
seemed not awful--not even unusual--for portraits to become flesh--only
most natural, most right, most unspeakably fortunate.

I laid my hand on hers. I looked from her to my portrait. I could not
see it in the firelight.

"We are not strangers," I said.

"Oh no, not strangers." Those luminous eyes were looking up into
mine--those red lips were near me. With a passionate cry--a sense of
having suddenly recovered life's one great good, that had seemed wholly
lost--I clasped her in my arms. She was no ghost--she was a woman--the
only woman in the world.

"How long," I said, "O love--how long since I lost you?"

She leaned back, hanging her full weight on the hands that were clasped
behind my head.

"How can I tell how long? There is no time in hell," she answered.

It was not a dream. Ah, no--there are no such dreams. I wish to God
there could be. When in dreams do I see her eyes, hear her voice, feel
her lips against my cheek, hold her hands to my lips, as I did that
night--the supreme night of my life? At first we hardly spoke. It seemed
enough--

    "... after long grief and pain,
    To feel the arms of my true love
      Round me once again."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is very difficult to tell this story. There are no words to express
the sense of glad reunion, the complete realization of every hope and
dream of a life, that came upon me as I sat with my hand in hers and
looked into her eyes.

How could it have been a dream, when I left her sitting in the
straight-backed chair, and went down to the kitchen to tell the maids I
should want nothing more--that I was busy, and did not wish to be
disturbed; when I fetched wood for the fire with my own hands, and,
bringing it in, found her still sitting there--saw the little brown head
turn as I entered, saw the love in her dear eyes; when I threw myself at
her feet and blessed the day I was born, since life had given me this?

Not a thought of Mildred: all the other things in my life were a
dream--this, its one splendid reality.

"I am wondering," she said after a while, when we had made such cheer
each of the other as true lovers may after long parting--"I am
wondering how much you remember of our past."

"I remember nothing," I said. "Oh, my dear lady, my dear sweetheart--I
remember nothing but that I love you--that I have loved you all my
life."

"You remember nothing--really nothing?"

"Only that I am yours; that we have both suffered; that----Tell me, my
mistress dear, all that you remember. Explain it all to me. Make me
understand. And yet----No, I don't want to understand. It is enough that
we are together."

If it was a dream, why have I never dreamed it again?

She leaned down towards me, her arm lay on my neck, and drew my head
till it rested on her shoulder. "I am a ghost, I suppose," she said,
laughing softly; and her laughter stirred memories which I just grasped
at, and just missed. "But you and I know better, don't we? I will tell
you everything you have forgotten. We loved each other--ah! no, you have
not forgotten that--and when you came back from the war we were to be
married. Our pictures were painted before you went away. You know I was
more learned than women of that day. Dear one, when you were gone they
said I was a witch. They tried me. They said I should be burned. Just
because I had looked at the stars and had gained more knowledge than
they, they must needs bind me to a stake and let me be eaten by the
fire. And you far away!"

Her whole body trembled and shrank. O love, what dream would have told
me that my kisses would soothe even that memory?

"The night before," she went on, "the devil did come to me. I was
innocent before--you know it, don't you? And even then my sin was for
you--for you--because of the exceeding love I bore you. The devil came,
and I sold my soul to eternal flame. But I got a good price. I got the
right to come back, through my picture (if any one looking at it wished
for me), as long as my picture stayed in its ebony frame. That frame
was not carved by man's hand. I got the right to come back to you. Oh,
my heart's heart, and another thing I won, which you shall hear anon.
They burned me for a witch, they made me suffer hell on earth. Those
faces, all crowding round, the crackling wood and the smell of the
smoke----"

"O love! no more--no more."

"When my mother sat that night before my picture she wept, and cried,
'Come back, my poor lost child!' And I went to her, with glad leaps of
heart. Dear, she shrank from me, she fled, she shrieked and moaned of
ghosts. She had our pictures covered from sight and put again in the
ebony frame. She had promised me my picture should stay always there.
Ah, through all these years your face was against mine."

She paused.

"But the man you loved?"

"You came home. My picture was gone. They lied to you, and you married
another woman; but some day I knew you would walk the world again and
that I should find you."

"The other gain?" I asked.

"The other gain," she said slowly, "I gave my soul for. It is this. If
you also will give up your hopes of heaven I can remain a woman, I can
move in your world--I can be your wife. Oh, my dear, after all these
years, at last--at last."

"If I sacrifice my soul," I said slowly, with no thought of the
imbecility of such talk in our "so-called nineteenth century"--"if I
sacrifice my soul, I win you? Why, love, it's a contradiction in terms.
You _are_ my soul."

Her eyes looked straight into mine. Whatever might happen, whatever did
happen, whatever may happen, our two souls in that moment met, and
became one.

"Then you choose--you deliberately choose--to give up your hopes of
heaven for me, as I gave up mine for you?"

"I decline," I said, "to give up my hope of heaven on any terms. Tell me
what I must do, that you and I may make our heaven here--as now, my dear
love."

"I will tell you to-morrow," she said. "Be alone here to-morrow
night--twelve is ghost's time, isn't it?--and then I will come out of
the picture and never go back to it. I shall live with you, and die, and
be buried, and there will be an end of me. But we shall live first, my
heart's heart."

I laid my head on her knee. A strange drowsiness overcame me. Holding
her hand against my cheek, I lost consciousness. When I awoke the grey
November dawn was glimmering, ghost-like, through the uncurtained
window. My head was pillowed on my arm, which rested--I raised my head
quickly--ah! not on my lady's knee, but on the needle-worked cushion of
the straight-backed chair. I sprang to my feet. I was stiff with cold,
and dazed with dreams, but I turned my eyes on the picture. There she
sat, my lady, my dear love. I held out my arms, but the passionate cry I
would have uttered died on my lips. She had said twelve o'clock. Her
lightest word was my law. So I only stood in front of the picture and
gazed into those grey-green eyes till tears of passionate happiness
filled my own.

"Oh, my dear, my dear, how shall I pass the hours till I hold you
again?"

No thought, then, of my whole life's completion and consummation being a
dream.

I staggered up to my room, fell across my bed, and slept heavily and
dreamlessly. When I awoke it was high noon. Mildred and her mother were
coming to lunch.

I remembered, at one shock, Mildred's coming and her existence.

Now, indeed, the dream began.

With a penetrating sense of the futility of any action apart from _her_,
I gave the necessary orders for the reception of my guests. When Mildred
and her mother came I received them with cordiality; but my genial
phrases all seemed to be some one else's. My voice sounded like an echo;
my heart was other where.

Still, the situation was not intolerable until the hour when afternoon
tea was served in the drawing-room. Mildred and her mother kept the
conversational pot boiling with a profusion of genteel commonplaces, and
I bore it, as one can bear mild purgatories when one is in sight of
heaven. I looked up at my sweetheart in the ebony frame, and I felt that
anything that might happen, any irresponsible imbecility, any bathos of
boredom, was nothing, if, after it all, _she_ came to me again.

And yet, when Mildred, too, looked at the portrait, and said, "What a
fine lady! One of your flames, Mr. Devigne?" I had a sickening sense of
impotent irritation, which became absolute torture when Mildred--how
could I ever have admired that chocolate-box barmaid style of
prettiness?--threw herself into the high-backed chair, covering the
needlework with her ridiculous flounces, and added, "Silence gives
consent! Who is it, Mr. Devigne? Tell us all about her: I am sure she
has a story."

Poor little Mildred, sitting there smiling, serene in her confidence
that her every word charmed me--sitting there with her rather pinched
waist, her rather tight boots, her rather vulgar voice--sitting in the
chair where my dear lady had sat when she told me her story! I could not
bear it.

"Don't sit there," I said; "it's not comfortable!"

But the girl would not be warned. With a laugh that set every nerve in
my body vibrating with annoyance, she said, "Oh, dear! mustn't I even
sit in the same chair as your black-velvet woman?"

I looked at the chair in the picture. It _was_ the same; and in her
chair Mildred was sitting. Then a horrible sense of the reality of
Mildred came upon me. Was all this a reality after all? But for
fortunate chance might Mildred have occupied, not only her chair, but
her place in my life? I rose.

"I hope you won't think me very rude," I said; "but I am obliged to go
out."

I forget what appointment I alleged. The lie came readily enough.

I faced Mildred's pouts with the hope that she and her mother would not
wait dinner for me. I fled. In another minute I was safe, alone, under
the chill, cloudy autumn sky--free to think, think, think of my dear
lady.

I walked for hours along streets and squares; I lived over again and
again every look, word, and hand-touch--every kiss; I was completely,
unspeakably happy.

Mildred was utterly forgotten: my lady of the ebony frame filled my
heart and soul and spirit.

As I heard eleven boom through the fog, I turned, and went home.

When I got to my street, I found a crowd surging through it, a strong
red light filling the air.

A house was on fire. Mine.

I elbowed my way through the crowd.

The picture of my lady--that, at least, I could save!

As I sprang up the steps, I saw, as in a dream--yes, all this was
_really_ dream-like--I saw Mildred leaning out of the first-floor
window, wringing her hands.

"Come back, sir," cried a fireman; "we'll get the young lady out right
enough."

But _my_ lady? I went on up the stairs, cracking, smoking, and as hot
as hell, to the room where her picture was. Strange to say, I only felt
that the picture was a thing we should like to look on through the long
glad wedded life that was to be ours. I never thought of it as being one
with her.

As I reached the first floor I felt arms round my neck. The smoke was
too thick for me to distinguish features.

"Save me!" a voice whispered. I clasped a figure in my arms, and, with a
strange dis-ease, bore it down the shaking stairs and out into safety.
It was Mildred. I knew _that_ directly I clasped her.

"Stand back," cried the crowd.

"Every one's safe," cried a fireman.

The flames leaped from every window. The sky grew redder and redder. I
sprang from the hands that would have held me. I leaped up the steps. I
crawled up the stairs. Suddenly the whole horror of the situation came
on me. "_As long as my picture remains in the ebony frame._" What if
picture and frame perished together?

I fought with the fire, and with my own choking inability to fight with
it. I pushed on. I must save my picture. I reached the drawing-room.

As I sprang in I saw my lady--I swear it--through the smoke and the
flames, hold out her arms to me--to me--who came too late to save her,
and to save my own life's joy. I never saw her again.

Before I could reach her, or cry out to her, I felt the floor yield
beneath my feet, and I fell into the fiery hell below.

       *       *       *       *       *

How did they save me? What does that matter? They saved me
somehow--curse them. Every stick of my aunt's furniture was destroyed.
My friends pointed out that, as the furniture was heavily insured, the
carelessness of a nightly-studious housemaid had done me no harm.

No harm!

That was how I won and lost my only love.

I deny, with all my soul in the denial, that it was a dream. There are
no such dreams. Dreams of longing and pain there are in plenty, but
dreams of complete, of unspeakable happiness--ah, no--it is the rest of
life that is the dream.

But if I think that, why have I married Mildred, and grown stout and
dull and prosperous?

I tell you it is all _this_ that is the dream; my dear lady only is the
reality. And what does it matter what one does in a dream?




JOHN CHARRINGTON'S WEDDING.


No one ever thought that May Forster would marry John Charrington; but
he thought differently, and things which John Charrington intended had a
queer way of coming to pass. He asked her to marry him before he went up
to Oxford. She laughed and refused him. He asked her again next time he
came home. Again she laughed, tossed her dainty blonde head, and again
refused. A third time he asked her; she said it was becoming a confirmed
bad habit, and laughed at him more than ever.

John was not the only man who wanted to marry her: she was the belle of
our village _coterie,_ and we were all in love with her more or less;
it was a sort of fashion, like heliotrope ties or Inverness capes.
Therefore we were as much annoyed as surprised when John Charrington
walked into our little local Club--we held it in a loft over the
saddler's, I remember--and invited us all to his wedding.

"Your wedding?"

"You don't mean it?"

"Who's the happy fair? When's it to be?"

John Charrington filled his pipe and lighted it before he replied. Then
he said--

"I'm sorry to deprive you fellows of your only joke--but Miss Forster
and I are to be married in September."

"You don't mean it?"

"He's got the mitten again, and it's turned his head."

"No," I said, rising, "I see it's true. Lend me a pistol some one--or a
first-class fare to the other end of Nowhere. Charrington has bewitched
the only pretty girl in our twenty-mile radius. Was it mesmerism, or a
love-potion, Jack?"

"Neither, sir, but a gift you'll never have--perseverance--and the best
luck a man ever had in this world."

There was something in his voice that silenced me, and all chaff of the
other fellows failed to draw him further.

The queer thing about it was that when we congratulated Miss Forster,
she blushed and smiled and dimpled, for all the world as though she were
in love with him, and had been in love with him all the time. Upon my
word, I think she had. Women are strange creatures.

We were all asked to the wedding. In Brixham every one who was anybody
knew everybody else who was any one. My sisters were, I truly believe,
more interested in the _trousseau_ than the bride herself, and I was to
be best man. The coming marriage was much canvassed at afternoon
tea-tables, and at our little Club over the saddler's, and the question
was always asked: "Does she care for him?"

I used to ask that question myself in the early days of their
engagement, but after a certain evening in August I never asked it
again. I was coming home from the Club through the churchyard. Our
church is on a thyme-grown hill, and the turf about it is so thick and
soft that one's footsteps are noiseless.

I made no sound as I vaulted the low lichened wall, and threaded my way
between the tombstones. It was at the same instant that I heard John
Charrington's voice, and saw Her. May was sitting on a low flat
gravestone, her face turned towards the full splendour of the western
sun. Its expression ended, at once and for ever, any question of love
for him; it was transfigured to a beauty I should not have believed
possible, even to that beautiful little face.

John lay at her feet, and it was his voice that broke the stillness of
the golden August evening.

"My dear, my dear, I believe I should come back from the dead if you
wanted me!"

I coughed at once to indicate my presence, and passed on into the shadow
fully enlightened.

The wedding was to be early in September. Two days before I had to run
up to town on business. The train was late, of course, for we are on the
South-Eastern, and as I stood grumbling with my watch in my hand, whom
should I see but John Charrington and May Forster. They were walking up
and down the unfrequented end of the platform, arm in arm, looking into
each other's eyes, careless of the sympathetic interest of the porters.

Of course I knew better than to hesitate a moment before burying myself
in the booking-office, and it was not till the train drew up at the
platform, that I obtrusively passed the pair with my Gladstone, and took
the corner in a first-class smoking-carriage. I did this with as good an
air of not seeing them as I could assume. I pride myself on my
discretion, but if John were travelling alone I wanted his company. I
had it.

"Hullo, old man," came his cheery voice as he swung his bag into my
carriage; "here's luck; I was expecting a dull journey!"

"Where are you off to?" I asked, discretion still bidding me turn my
eyes away, though I saw, without looking, that hers were red-rimmed.

"To old Branbridge's," he answered, shutting the door and leaning out
for a last word with his sweetheart.

"Oh, I wish you wouldn't go, John," she was saying in a low, earnest
voice. "I feel certain something will happen."

"Do you think I should let anything happen to keep me, and the day after
to-morrow our wedding-day?"

"Don't go," she answered, with a pleading intensity which would have
sent my Gladstone on to the platform and me after it. But she wasn't
speaking to me. John Charrington was made differently; he rarely changed
his opinions, never his resolutions.

He only stroked the little ungloved hands that lay on the carriage
door.

"I must, May. The old boy's been awfully good to me, and now he's dying
I must go and see him, but I shall come home in time for----" the rest
of the parting was lost in a whisper and in the rattling lurch of the
starting train.

"You're sure to come?" she spoke as the train moved.

"Nothing shall keep me," he answered; and we steamed out. After he had
seen the last of the little figure on the platform he leaned back in his
corner and kept silence for a minute.

When he spoke it was to explain to me that his godfather, whose heir he
was, lay dying at Peasmarsh Place, some fifty miles away, and had sent
for John, and John had felt bound to go.

"I shall be surely back to-morrow," he said, "or, if not, the day after,
in heaps of time. Thank Heaven, one hasn't to get up in the middle of
the night to get married nowadays!"

"And suppose Mr. Branbridge dies?"

"Alive or dead I mean to be married on Thursday!" John answered,
lighting a cigar and unfolding the _Times_.

At Peasmarsh station we said "good-bye," and he got out, and I saw him
ride off; I went on to London, where I stayed the night.

When I got home the next afternoon, a very wet one, by the way, my
sister greeted me with--

"Where's Mr. Charrington?"

"Goodness knows," I answered testily. Every man, since Cain, has
resented that kind of question.

"I thought you might have heard from him," she went on, "as you're to
give him away to-morrow."

"Isn't he back?" I asked, for I had confidently expected to find him at
home.

"No, Geoffrey,"--my sister Fanny always had a way of jumping to
conclusions, especially such conclusions as were least favourable to her
fellow-creatures--"he has not returned, and, what is more, you may
depend upon it he won't. You mark my words, there'll be no wedding
to-morrow."

My sister Fanny has a power of annoying me which no other human being
possesses.

"You mark my words," I retorted with asperity, "you had better give up
making such a thundering idiot of yourself. There'll be more wedding
to-morrow than ever you'll take the first part in." A prophecy which, by
the way, came true.

But though I could snarl confidently to my sister, I did not feel so
comfortable when, late that night, I, standing on the doorstep of John's
house, heard that he had not returned. I went home gloomily through the
rain. Next morning brought a brilliant blue sky, gold sun, and all such
softness of air and beauty of cloud as go to make up a perfect day. I
woke with a vague feeling of having gone to bed anxious, and of being
rather averse to facing that anxiety in the light of full wakefulness.

But with my shaving-water came a note from John which relieved my mind
and sent me up to the Forsters' with a light heart.

May was in the garden. I saw her blue gown through the hollyhocks as the
lodge gates swung to behind me. So I did not go up to the house, but
turned aside down the turfed path.

"He's written to you too," she said, without preliminary greeting, when
I reached her side.

"Yes, I'm to meet him at the station at three, and come straight on to
the church."

Her face looked pale, but there was a brightness in her eyes, and a
tender quiver about the mouth that spoke of renewed happiness.

"Mr. Branbridge begged him so to stay another night that he had not the
heart to refuse," she went on. "He is so kind, but I wish he hadn't
stayed."

I was at the station at half-past two. I felt rather annoyed with John.
It seemed a sort of slight to the beautiful girl who loved him, that he
should come as it were out of breath, and with the dust of travel upon
him, to take her hand, which some of us would have given the best years
of our lives to take.

But when the three o'clock train glided in, and glided out again having
brought no passengers to our little station, I was more than annoyed.
There was no other train for thirty-five minutes; I calculated that,
with much hurry, we might just get to the church in time for the
ceremony; but, oh, what a fool to miss that first train! What other man
could have done it?

That thirty-five minutes seemed a year, as I wandered round the station
reading the advertisements and the time-tables, and the company's
bye-laws, and getting more and more angry with John Charrington. This
confidence in his own power of getting everything he wanted the minute
he wanted it was leading him too far. I hate waiting. Every one does,
but I believe I hate it more than any one else. The three thirty-five
was late, of course.

I ground my pipe between my teeth and stamped with impatience as I
watched the signals. Click. The signal went down. Five minutes later I
flung myself into the carriage that I had brought for John.

"Drive to the church!" I said, as some one shut the door. "Mr.
Charrington hasn't come by this train."

Anxiety now replaced anger. What had become of the man? Could he have
been taken suddenly ill? I had never known him have a day's illness in
his life. And even so he might have telegraphed. Some awful accident
must have happened to him. The thought that he had played her false
never--no, not for a moment--entered my head. Yes, something terrible
had happened to him, and on me lay the task of telling his bride. I
almost wished the carriage would upset and break my head so that some
one else might tell her, not I, who--but that's nothing to do with his
story.

It was five minutes to four as we drew up at the churchyard gate. A
double row of eager on-lookers lined the path from lychgate to porch. I
sprang from the carriage and passed up between them. Our gardener had a
good front place near the door. I stopped.

"Are they waiting still, Byles?" I asked, simply to gain time, for of
course I knew they were by the waiting crowd's attentive attitude.

"Waiting, sir? No, no, sir; why, it must be over by now."

"Over! Then Mr. Charrington's come?"

"To the minute, sir; must have missed you somehow, and, I say, sir,"
lowering his voice, "I never see Mr. John the least bit so afore, but my
opinion is he's been drinking pretty free. His clothes was all dusty and
his face like a sheet. I tell you I didn't like the looks of him at all,
and the folks inside are saying all sorts of things. You'll see,
something's gone very wrong with Mr. John, and he's tried liquor. He
looked like a ghost, and in he went with his eyes straight before him,
with never a look or a word for none of us; him that was always such a
gentleman!"

I had never heard Byles make so long a speech. The crowd in the
churchyard were talking in whispers and getting ready rice and slippers
to throw at the bride and bridegroom. The ringers were ready with their
hands on the ropes to ring out the merry peal as the bride and
bridegroom should come out.

A murmur from the church announced them; out they came. Byles was right.
John Charrington did not look himself. There was dust on his coat, his
hair was disarranged. He seemed to have been in some row, for there was
a black mark above his eyebrow. He was deathly pale. But his pallor was
not greater than that of the bride, who might have been carved in
ivory--dress, veil, orange blossoms, face and all.

As they passed out the ringers stooped--there were six of them--and
then, on the ears expecting the gay wedding peal, came the slow tolling
of the passing bell.

A thrill of horror at so foolish a jest from the ringers passed through
us all. But the ringers themselves dropped the ropes and fled like
rabbits out into the sunlight. The bride shuddered, and grey shadows
came about her mouth, but the bridegroom led her on down the path where
the people stood with the handfuls of rice; but the handfuls were never
thrown, and the wedding-bells never rang. In vain the ringers were urged
to remedy their mistake: they protested with many whispered expletives
that they would see themselves further first.

In a hush like the hush in the chamber of death the bridal pair passed
into their carriage and its door slammed behind them.

Then the tongues were loosed. A babel of anger, wonder, conjecture from
the guests and the spectators.

"If I'd seen his condition, sir," said old Forster to me as we drove
off, "I would have stretched him on the floor of the church, sir, by
Heaven I would, before I'd have let him marry my daughter!"

Then he put his head out of the window.

"Drive like hell," he cried to the coachman; "don't spare the horses."

He was obeyed. We passed the bride's carriage. I forebore to look at it,
and old Forster turned his head away and swore. We reached home before
it.

We stood in the hall doorway, in the blazing afternoon sun, and in about
half a minute we heard wheels crunching the gravel. When the carriage
stopped in front of the steps old Forster and I ran down.

"Great Heaven, the carriage is empty! And yet----"

I had the door open in a minute, and this is what I saw--

No sign of John Charrington; and of May, his wife, only a huddled heap
of white satin lying half on the floor of the carriage and half on the
seat.

"I drove straight here, sir," said the coachman, as the bride's father
lifted her out; "and I'll swear no one got out of the carriage."

We carried her into the house in her bridal dress and drew back her
veil. I saw her face. Shall I ever forget it? White, white and drawn
with agony and horror, bearing such a look of terror as I have never
seen since except in dreams. And her hair, her radiant blonde hair, I
tell you it was white like snow.

As we stood, her father and I, half mad with the horror and mystery of
it, a boy came up the avenue--a telegraph boy. They brought the orange
envelope to me. I tore it open.

"_Mr. Charrington was thrown from the dogcart on his way to the station
at half-past one. Killed on the spot!_"

And he was married to May Forster in our parish church at _half-past
three_, in presence of half the parish.

"_I shall be married, dead or alive!_"

What had passed in that carriage on the homeward drive? No one knows--no
one will ever know. Oh, May! oh, my dear!

Before a week was over they laid her beside her husband in our little
churchyard on the thyme-covered hill--the churchyard where they had kept
their love-trysts.

Thus was accomplished John Charrington's wedding.